a An initial screening examining the effect of loss of 50 acetyltransferases and 24 deacetylases on cisplatin response. Each gene was targeted by pooled shRNA virus infection. KB-3-1 cisR cells transduced with lentiviral shRNA were treated with a sublethal dose of cisplatin (5 μg/ml). Candidates exhibiting low cell viability upon knockdown (<85%; gray) were excluded. b Secondary screening utilized the top 11 genes identified from the primary screen in A549 cisR , KB-3-1 cisR , and H1299. Two candidates that induced over 25% cell death upon gene knockdown and cisplatin treatment are highlighted in purple. c Overall survival (OS) ratios for high versus low expression of the top 2 genes, DLAT and KAT2A, in 10 cancer types were determined using TCGA-based Kaplan-Meier Plotter. Pan-cancer RNA-sequencing data from 3565 patients was stratified by medians. d Effect of DLAT knockdown on cisplatin response was determined by cisplatin IC 50 . Cells were treated with sublethal doses of cisplatin (A549 cisR 2 μg/ml, KB-3-1 cisR 5 μg/ml, PCI-37B 1 μg/ml, H1299 5 μg/ml) for 48 h. e Colony formation potential of cancer cells with cisplatin treatment and DLAT knockdown. f Cisplatin-induced apoptotic cell death (upper) and cell viability (lower) in cancer cells without or with DLAT knockdown. g-j , DLAT knockdown effect on cisplatin-resistant tumor growth. Mice xenografted with KB-3-1 cisR were treated with vehicle control or cisplatin (5 mg/kg) twice a week. Tumor size ( g ), tumor weight ( h ), and the expression level of DLAT in tumors ( i ) are shown. Tumor proliferation is assessed by Ki-67 IHC, and representative images of the staining are shown for each group ( j ). Scale bars shown in ( g ) and ( j ) represent 10 mm and 50 μm, respectively. Data are mean ± SD from 3 technical replicates for (a) and 3 independent biological replicates for ( b , d – f ). n = 8 per group for ( g ) and ( h ), and the error bars indicate SEM for ( g ) and SD for ( h ). P values were determined by paired two-tailed Student’s t- test for ( c ), two-way ANOVA ( g ), and one-way ANOVA for the rest. Source data are provided as a Source Data file.