a Effect of targeting DLAT on cellular uptake of cisplatin and cisplatin-mediated DNA damage. Cells were treated with sublethal doses of cisplatin for 24 h, followed by staining with fluorescently labeled antibodies against cisplatin-DNA adducts, phospho-Histone H2A.X, and phospho-53BP1.Effect of DLAT loss and cisplatin treatment on bioenergetics, biosynthesis, and ROS levels. Cells were treated with cisplatin, and ATP, RNA, protein synthesis levels ( b ) and cellular ROS levels ( c ) were measured by luminescent assay, metabolic labeling, and DCFDA staining, respectively. d Cisplatin-treated cells with DLAT knockdown were treated with antioxidant NAC (0.5 mM). Cellular ROS (upper), apoptosis (middle), and cell viability (lower) were measured. Effect of mitochondria-targeted antioxidant mito-TEMPO ( e ) or catalase overexpression ( f ) on ROS levels, apoptosis, and cell viability in cells with DLAT knockdown and cisplatin. Mito-TEMPO (10 μM) or flag-tagged catalase was introduced in cisplatin-treated cells. Mitochondrial ROS and cytoplasmic hydrogen peroxide were measured by mitoSOX staining and luminescence detection, respectively. g Immunoblotting of apoptosis-associated proteins. Cells with or without DLAT knockdown were treated with sublethal doses of cisplatin for 24 h. h Effect of DLAT loss and NAC treatment on Bcl-xL expression. i Scatter plot of drug sensitivity in KB-3-1 cisR and A549 cisR representing ROS level, apoptotic rate, or growth inhibition vs -log 10 ( P value). Cells were treated with sublethal doses of drugs (2 μg/ml cisplatin, 50 μM carboplatin, 10 nM gemcitabine, 10 μM etoposide, 0.5 μM pemetrexed, 3 nM paclitaxel, 1 μM erlotinib) for 48 h followed by DCFDA staining (left), annexin V staining (middle), and CellTiter-Glo viability assay (right). Fold changes were obtained by comparing the DLAT knockdown group to the control group. Data are mean ± SD from 3 independent biological replicates for ( a – f , i ). P values were determined by two-tailed Student’s t -test ( a , i ) and one-way ANOVA for the rest. Source data are provided as a Source Data file.